---
title: For the entrant
layout: top_en.liquid
data:
  ru: abityrienty_ru.html
---

## For the entrant

The “Power Supply of Industrial Companies and Cities” (EPG) chair was
created on October 14, 1968. For last years more than 3000 electrical
engineers, including about 300 people for foreign countries are trained.

The direction of preparation 050701 — “Electrical equipment and
electrotechnologies”

The chair is letting out in “Electrotechnical systems of a power
consumption” on all levels of preparation: bachelor (6.050701), expert
(7.05070103), master (8.05070103). In 2000 within specialty the
following specializations are open:: “Electrotechnical systems of power
supply of industrial companies”, “Electrotechnical systems of power
supply of the cities”.

Educational process is carried out in a two-staged form.

- Training at the <span class="bld">first step</span> is made during 8
  semester and comes to the end with state examination or the thesis.
  Upon termination of training at the first step the bachelor's degree
  is issued and qualification the bachelor-electrician is appropriated.
  With the bachelor's degree the graduate can begin work or continue
  training for obtaining qualification the expert. From among students
  excellent students candidates for education continuation according to
  the program the “master-electrician” get out.
- Training at the <span class="bld">second step</span> lasts 2 or 3
  semester and comes to the end with protection of the thesis (project)
  or a master's thesis respectively.

Preparation in the specialty is carried out on day and correspondence
forms of education. The best students have opportunity to be trained on
military chair after which termination the officer rank is appropriated.
The group is formed of students of specialty “Electrotechnical systems
of power supply” for training at the French technical faculty with
profound studying of French with possibility of passing of the included
education in France.

The main field of activity of graduates of specialty is transfer,
distribution and electricity consumption, and objects of their activity
— systems of power supply of the enterprises, the cities, agriculture.
They can be engaged in design, operational, organizational and
administrative activity, and also research and teaching work in the
manufacturing, operational and electroassembly enterprises, in design
and research institutes, the enterprises of agro-industrial complex.

Graduates of specialty “Electrotechnical systems of power supply” can
work at positions: the operation and electric equipment repair engineer
— in departments of the chief power engineer, the repairman of electric
equipment of producing departments of the enterprises, the electrician
of shop, the engineer of specialized electrotechnical laboratory on
industrial production; the engineer and the research engineer in design
and research institutes; engineer, laboratory manager, the assistant,
the teacher in educational institutions; the foreman, masters in
installations of industrial wiring; power of the enterprises of an
agrarian and industrial complex. They can carry out duties of the
administrative personnel: chief power engineer (electrician) of the
enterprise; chief, deputy chief, shift supervisor, senior master, job
foremaster of an electrorepair shop; foreman (site) of networks and
substations; the chief of electroshop of combined heat and power plant,
the chief of electrotechnical laboratory, and also can be the reviewer
or the manager in business concerns and advertizing agencies which are
connected with power supply and a power consumption, etc.

About a high skill level of teachers says that fact that more than 80%
of structure of chair have scientific degrees and ranks. Now the chair
has a modern display class, the subject audience, six educational
laboratories. Existence of good material base, modern computer aids and
highly skilled teachers allows chair to prepare engineering shots of
high qualification.

#### Students of specialty “Electrotechnical systems of power supply” (preparation level the bachelor) study the following disciplines:

- <span class="bld">humanitarian and social and economic:</span> history
  of Ukraine, business Ukrainian, Ukrainian and foreign culture,
  philosophy, fundamentals of psychology and pedagogics, religious
  studies, basis of the economic theory, political science, right bases,
  sociology, foreign language, bases of a constitutional law, physical
  culture;
- <span class="bld">fundamental and professional the focused:</span> the
  higher mathematics, physics, chemistry, introduction in informatics,
  fundamentals of ecology, a labor protection basis, health and safety,
  engineering graphics, theoretical mechanics, applied mechanics,
  theoretical bases of electrical equipment, electric cars, the theory
  of automatic control, microprocessor equipment, fundamentals of
  metrology and електровимірювальна equipment, electrotechnical
  materials, industrial electronics, electric devices, the organization
  of production and marketing, the power equipment, electric systems and
  networks, power supply, transients in power supply systems, automation
  of productions, bases of relay protection and automatic equipment;
- <span class="bld">дисціпліни за вибіром студентів:</span> нетрадиційні
  джерела енергії; сучасні комп'ютерні технології; побутові
  електроспоживачі; енергозбереження; метрологія, стандартизація,
  сертифікація і акредитація у електроенергетиці; основи
  науково-дослідницької роботи; поглиблене вивчення іноземних мов.

<span class="bld">Preparation level the “expert” provides studying of
the following disciplines:</span> civil defense, business planning in
the conditions of the market, installation and operation, reliability
and electric equipment diagnostics, scheduling and telemechanization of
systems of power supply, labor protection in branch, electromagnetic
compatibility and disciplines in the preparation directions.

<span class="bld">Additional disciplines in the preparation
directions</span> “Electrotechnical systems of power supply of
industrial companies”: power supply, power supply of
electrotechnological installations; “Electrotechnical systems of power
supply of the cities”: power supply of the cities, consumers of the
electric power and electropreserving technologies in the cities.

<span class="bld">Preparation level the “master” provides additional
studying of the following disciplines:</span> science and equipment
philosophy, quality management and production certification, the theory
and methods of engineering experiment, investment design of engineering
decisions, network information technologies in creative training of the
engineer, oratorical skill, statistical electrodynamics.

During training students pass the following types the practician: the
educational — the 2nd semester; the production — the 6th, 8th semester;
the predegree — the 10th semester.
